# Analyzing and investigating american police brutality in R
The Police Shootings dataset shows the reportings of fatalities by police departments, newspapers, and social media as collected by the Washington Post since Jan, 1 2015.  The media phenomenon was inspired to collect this data following the murder of a defenseless, unarmed black man, known as Freddie Gray,  on 2014 in Ferguson,  Missouri. His unfortunate death symbolized yet another fatal interaction between a black person and the institutional powerhouse of the police force. Within the data frame of victims , there includes seventeen different columns that consist of geographical, medical conditions,  social markers of victims and more. 
Some of the research questions that we were motivated to answer and explore were what racial groups were mostly represented in the dataset, how different social markers impact a victim of police brutality being labeled with negative connotations, and whether there is any correlation between an attack threat level and increased rate of death from law enforcement. 
Some limitations included a lack of numerical data (most of the variables had categorical values). For example, in the gender column, the value for a male would be “male” instead of a 0 or 1. Second, there was too much data wrangling to do. Lastly, there were misleading proportions (actual vs census data). This issue could’ve been avoided with a stratified random sample but that would be data wrangling on top of what is already given.
